Watch the two pilots
on the glide track.
At first, both are still.
Now watch their hands.
Their palms press, and both
platforms begin to move apart.
The motion is our first clue.
Which two objects
are interacting?
A force is a push or pull
during an interaction.
The blue pilot pushes
on the orange pilot.
At the same moment, the orange
pilot pushes on the blue pilot.
One interaction produces two
forces, acting on two different
objects.
Follow each arrow to the
object receiving the push.
Blue on orange belongs
with the orange pilot.
Orange on blue belongs
with the blue pilot.
The arrows are equal in
length and point in opposite
directions.
One interaction;
two force arrows.
Compare the evidence
before and after contact.
Before the push, both
platforms are still.
Afterwards, they move apart.
The change is motion.
We do not see a force floating
through the air; we identify
the interaction and
measure what changes.
Here is an idea worth testing:
perhaps the push travels inside
each pilot.
Check the sequence.
While their palms touch, the
contact-force arrows are present.
When their hands separate,
those arrows disappear.
The platforms keep gliding, but
that contact push has ended.
Contact forces can push or pull.
In the first bay, the robot's
padded hand pushes the cart.
In the second, the robot pulls
the trolley through a taut
cable.
In both cases, name the pair.
One object alone cannot
describe an interaction.
Now focus on the gap
between the magnets.
They do not touch, yet both
carts can begin to move.
That is evidence of a
non-contact interaction.
Gravity is another example:
Earth pulls objects towards it
without making surface contact.
Use two questions to
classify an interaction.
First: which two
objects are involved?
Second: do they touch?
A robot hand on a
cart is contact.
Magnet on magnet is non-contact.
Earth pulling an
object is non-contact.
Strength does not choose
the label; touching does.
For a fair comparison, keep the
cart, track, and starting line
the same.
Change only the size of the
push, then measure the distance
travelled in the same time.
If several conditions change
together, the evidence cannot
tell us which change mattered.
Return to the pilots.
Their platforms are still moving
after their hands separate.
Does that mean a push
is stored inside them?
No.
The contact interaction
happened first and changed their
motion.
After contact ends, the new
motion can continue while other
forces still act.
Make a prediction before
the magnet trial runs.
Which observations would support
a non-contact interaction?
Take three quiet
seconds to decide.
Now check: the gap remains
visible, both carts change motion,
and no hand touches either cart.
Those observations
support the claim.
Use this physicist's routine
whenever you investigate a force.
Name both objects.
Decide whether they touch.
Then use a change in
motion as evidence.
A force is not hidden material
carried by one object.
A force belongs to an
interaction between objects.